# Property Delegates

Kotlin is packed with great language features, and we have seen TornadoFX already exploit some of them. But there is another that comes in handy when dealing with nuanced property behavior. [Delegated properties](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/delegated-properties.html) are a powerful way to specify how a property works and create re-usable policies for those properties. On top of the ones that exist in Kotlin's standard library, TornadoFX provides a few more property delegates that are particularly helpful for JavaFX development. 

##Single Assign 

It is often ideal to initialize properties immediately upon construction. But inevitably there are times when this simply is not feasible. When a property needs to delay its initialization until it is first called, a lazy delegate is typically used. You specify a lambda instructing how the property value is constructed the moment it is first called.

```kotlin
val fooValue by lazy { buildExpensiveFoo() }
```

But there are situations where the property needs to be assigned  later not by a value-supplying lambda, but rather an arbitrary external call. For example, when we leverage type-safe builders we may want to save a `Button` to a class-level property so we can reference it later. If we do not want `myButton` to be nullable, we need to use the [`lateinit` modifier](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/properties.html#late-initialized-properties). 

```kotlin
class MyView: View() {
        override val root = VBox()

        lateinit var myButton: Button

        init {
            with(root) {
                    myButton = button("New Entry")
            }
       }
}
```

The problem with `lateinit` is it can be assigned multiple times accidentally, and it is not necessary thread safe. This can lead to classic bugs associated with mutability, and you really should strive for immutability as much as possible ( *Effective Java* by Bloch, Item #13).

By leveraging the `singleAssign()` delegate, you can guarantee that property is *only* assigned once. Any subsequent assignment attempts will throw a runtime error, and so will accessing it before a value is assigned. This effectively gives us the guarantee of immutability. even though it is enforced at runtime.

```kotlin
class MyView: View() {
        override val root = VBox()

        var myButton: Button by singleAssign()

        init {
            with(root) {
                    myButton = button("New Entry") //property locked
            }
       }
}
```

Even though this single assignment is not enforced at compile time, problems are often captured early in the development process. Especially as complex builder designs evolve and variable assignments move around, `singleAssign()` is an effective tool to mitigate mutability problems but allowing flexible assignment timing.

By default, `singleAssign()` synchronizes access to its internal value. You should leave it this way by default especially if your application is multithreaded. If you wish to disable synchronization for whatever reason, you can pass a `SingleAssignThreadSafetyMode` enum value for the `NONE` policy. 

```kotlin
var myButton: Button by singleAssign(SingleAssignThreadSafetyMode.NONE)
```

##Property Delegate

Let's not confuse the JavaFX `Property` with the standard Java/Kotlin "property". The `Property` is a special type in `JavaFX` that maintains a value internally and notifies listeners of changes. It is particularly useful in JavaFX because it supports Bindings. 